General Usability & Desktop:
A simple title and header section provides context and function of the information below. This header will be "fixed," meaning the listing content will simply slide underneath it, allowing the user to constantly access the search, post, and category select functions. The listings are an "endless scroll," so the user never has to load a new page to browse future listings.

The categories I've narrowed down is actually what took me the longest in creating this mockup. These categories will likely need to be refined as we gather user data and feedback. We may find that we have too many, we may find that we have not enough, we may find that we need a sub-category or two. To start, I've broken it into 9 broad categories that most events I could imagine could fall into. 

When a category is selected, only events of that category are shown in the list section. When there are no events of the selected category for a specific day, the day is not shown. This way, the user see's only the relevant information with the least amount of text on-screen. The search function will operate in the same manor, except it will refine the listings by title, date, time, venue/address, or cost.

One last note on the categories: colour. These are the only areas in which colour is used on the website, and I think it's really impactful. From my brief testing in the office, it was the most helpful and space-saving method of setting each event apart from one another. In the time it's taken me to create this mockup, I've been able to learn the colours of each category so I no longer have to cross reference with the header. It makes for a very efficient browsing experience.

I've done my best to organize the data in the order of immediate importance. As one looks for an event, they're shown the date (I'd like to go out tonight), the category and title (I'd like a comedy event), the venue and address (I'm looking for something in the Glebe), the time of the event (I'd like to go after dinner), and the cost (I'd like it to be under $10). This forms an invisible "sentence" for the user, making it easy to digest and quickly find the information they're interested in.

Each individual listing is a hyperlink to a the event's website, Facebook page, Eventbrite, etc. Artlist's primary service is displaying all of these diverse listings together. Further information can be provided on a different platform of the organizer's choice. In the future, maybe the Artlist will be a platform where advanced details can be found and tickets can be purchased, but for now, let's keep it simple and to the point. 

Mobile Specific:
This is my favourite view of the website. We're able to keep all of the data available on the desktop present in the mobile layout, with a relitively similar flow of information. I think it's important that the desktop and mobile sites work and feel the same way, and I think this layout accomplishes that. The header will still stick to the top, and the category selectors will operate in the same way as the desktop site. The only page lost between the mobile and desktop versions is the 'information' page. We could attribute this link to the "Artlist" title (if an information page is required).

Share Page Specific:
This is the the only other functional page of the website. I've built it as a standalone page, just to show the basic functions of it. Ideally, I'd like to build it as an in-browser drop down window for the desktop and mobile sites, but I will have to discuss further with my developer, Craig, to see what's both accessible and possible. For now, it's shown in it's most basic form as a standalone page, with the basic areas of information it will collect.

You can see there's a small icon at the bottom of the share page. This was an idea I was toying around with. A simple icon could be shown on static pages, or at the end of the listing results to show the user that "there is no more content after this point." I whipped it up rather quickly, so if you like the idea of it we can explore idea of a mark or icon later on. 

Aesthetic notes:
I've tried to make the Artlist as neutral as possible while still communicating a distinct personality. 

The primary type family is called Maison Neue, it comes in six weights (light, book, medium, demi, bold, and monospaced) so a variety of information can be differentiated from one another while all remaining related. The title font is called Base 9 sans. It's similar to Maison in many ways, but I find it's unique enough to give the title a distinct personality and set itself apart from the Artlist's informational content and navigation. In the case that the Artlist ever develops its own media outside of the website, we'll be happy to have a distinct header and body fonts so we can really communicate Artlist's personality.

Otherwise, some very subtle details make up the website's aesthetic. Everything is built on a four column grid, with horizontal rows of a 15px height. All of the type's line height is between 150-200% the type height, so there's a enough vertical "breathing room." The background colour is a very light shade of grey, as stark white is pretty hard on the eyes and a little institutional looking. The text colour is a very dark shade of grey, as pure black felt really heavy on an already text-heavy page. I've stylized the title as "The Artlist," as I found "Artlist" to sound less important and less inviting. I love that the title of the website is The Artlist, and that the website is actually a list (when was the last time a service website was truly honest?)